# Firebase

Firebase is a collection of hosting services to host any kind of application founded by **James Tamplin**
and **Andrew Lee** It provides *real-time* and *NoSQL* database hosting, content, social authentication, and notifications, in addition to other services including a real-time communication server.

Developers can create *iOS*, *Android*, and *Web apps* using the Google-sponsored application development platform. Tools are available from Firebase for monitoring analytics, reporting and resolving app errors, as well as developing marketing and product experiments.

It aims to solve 3 main problems for developers:
- Quicker app creation
- With confidence, release and monitor an app.
- Engage more users

## Popular Apps Using Firebase
- Alibaba
- The New York Times
- eBay 
- The Economist
- Onefootball

## Firebase use cases
The Firebase use cases include:
- MVPs (Minimum viable products)
- Chat and messaging apps
- Realtime applications
- Ads optimization based on user behavior
- User retention optimization via machine learning
- Business applications

## Benefits of using Firebase
- Free to start (Spark plan is free)
- Security
- Generates traffic to apps
- End-to-end app development platform
- Development speed
- Serverless
- Error monitoring
- Powered by Google
- It offers machine learning capabilities

## Firebase Features

* __Build__
  * _Databases (Cloud Firestore + Real Time Database)_  

    The Firebase mobile application development platform includes Cloud Firestore, often known as _Google Firestore_.

    Fundamentally, it is a cloud-based _NoSQL_ database for synchronising and storing data. Through native SDKs, Firebase users can access Firestore from their mobile or web applications.

    A database maintained in the cloud is _Firebase Realtime Database_. In addition to performing real-time data synchronisation with connected clients, it enables _JSON_-based data storage.

    Using the _iOS_, _JavaScript_, and _Android SDKs_, single instances of the Realtime Database serve as clients for the building of cross-platform applications.

  * _Cloud Functions_

    The term _"Firebase Cloud Functions"_ refers to a serverless framework that enables programmers to run backend code in response to events that are generated by _HTTPS_ and _Firebase_ features. Code written in _TypeScript_ or _JavaScript_ can be stored on Google cloud and run in a controlled environment.

  * _Authentication_
   
    A Firebase component called authentication offers simple SDKs, backends, and ready-to-use UI libraries for user application authentication. _Phone numbers_, _passwords_, and websites like _Google_, _Twitter_, _Facebook_, and others are supported for authentication.

  * _Hosting_

    Microservices, web apps, and a variety of other content kinds can all be hosted using Firebase's flexible and scalable hosting options. Users can get _SSL_ protection and single-click rollbacks, and content can be hosted in a variety of categories.

  * _Machine Learning_
  
    Using Firebase ML's machine learning features is a great fit for anyone, regardless of skill level. You don't need to be an expert in areas like neural networks or model optimization. _TensorFlow Lite_ models can be used in mobile applications by experienced developers by using the _Firebase ML Kit APIs_.

  * _Cloud Storage_
    A service for storing objects used in application development is Firebase's Cloud Storage functionality. With this feature, users have access to download and upload security at the same level as Google, and it is appropriate for storing media files and user material.

  * _Emulator_
    The Emulator Suite now offers emulators for _Google Cloud Pub/Sub_, _Authentication_, _Cloud Functions_, _Firestore_, _RTDB_, _hosting_, and more. Additionally, a built-in user interface (UI) resembling that of the Firebase Console is present.
  
* __Release Monitor__
  * _Crashlytics_
    Firebase's real-time crash reporting, Crashlytics, gives developers the ability to keep track of, prioritize, and fix issues. Potential stability problems can be avoided by using the Crashlytics feature.

  * _Analytics_
    The functionalities of Google Analytics, which is integrated with Firebase, are available to Firebase users. Users can report on as many Firebase SDK events as they want using Analytics. Analytics can be used by developers to better understand user behavior and make better decisions.
    
  * _Performance Monitoring_
    You can use the Firebase Performance Monitoring service to learn more about the performance traits of your iOS, Android, and web apps.

  * _Test Lab_
    A cloud-based infrastructure called Firebase Test Lab is used to test applications. It enables users to operate across numerous devices and various device configurations to test their iOS and Android applications.

  * _App Distribution_
    A user's beta testing programme on both the Android and iOS platforms may be viewed in detail with the use of the Firebase App Distribution tool. Before a new release is produced, users can provide helpful input.
  
* __Engage__
  * _Remote Config_
    A cloud service known as "Remote Config" enables users to change the behavior and appearance of programmes without having to update them. Users can also design default in-app settings to maintain the functionality and aesthetics of their apps.

  * _Predictions_
    A helpful tool called Firebase Predictions uses machine learning to create dynamic user segments based on behavior. With Firebase Remote Config, In-App Messaging, A/B Testing, and the Firebase Notifications composer, automatic predictions are available.

  * _A/B Testing_
    A/B Testing is a Firebase function that aids in app management, scaling, and analysis so that developers may provide better app user experiences. Before an app opens, users may immediately test changes made to the UI, features, and campaigns.

  * _Dynamic Links_
    Smart URLs called Firebase Dynamic Links allow application managers to point present and potential consumers to various areas of Android or iOS applications. This feature allows new users to view content when an app is first started and can function without being impacted by the installation.

  * _In App-Messaging_
    A Firebase feature called In-App Messaging uses contextual messaging to interact with consumers of active apps. Users can perform specified in-app actions to unlock particular offerings or gain access to other capabilities.
